# SIEM With Suricata and Elasticsearch

This project is a Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) system built with Suricata and Elasticsearch. It leverages Suricata for network intrusion detection and Elasticsearch for storing and analyzing security events.

## Description

Suricata is an open-source network threat detection engine capable of real-time intrusion detection (IDS), inline intrusion prevention (IPS), network security monitoring (NSM), and offline pcap processing. Elasticsearch is a distributed, RESTful search and analytics engine capable of addressing a growing number of use cases.

This SIEM system combines these powerful tools to provide comprehensive security monitoring and alerting capabilities.

## How It Works

1. **Suricata**: Suricata monitors network traffic and generates alerts based on predefined rules. It detects suspicious activities and logs them.

2. **Filebeat**: Filebeat collects logs generated by Suricata and forwards them to Elasticsearch.

3. **Elasticsearch**: Elasticsearch indexes the logs and makes them searchable. It provides a robust platform for storing and querying security event data.

4. **Kibana**: Kibana, a part of the Elastic Stack, is used for visualizing the data stored in Elasticsearch. It allows users to create dashboards for monitoring network activity and detecting security incidents.

## Setup

1. **Install Suricata**:
   ```sh
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install suricata
   ```
2. **Configure Suricata**: Update Suricata configuration file (/etc/suricata/suricata.yaml) to set up logging and network interfaces.

3. **Install Elastic Stack:** <br>
   * Install Elasticsearch:
   ```sh
   wget -qO - https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch | sudo apt-key add -
   sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https
   echo "deb https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/7.x/apt stable main" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list.d/elastic-7.x.list
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install elasticsearch
   ```
   * Install Kibana:
   ```sh
    sudo apt-get install kibana
   ```
   * Install Filebeat:
   ```sh
   sudo apt-get install kibana
   ```
4. **Configure Filebeat:** Update the Filebeat configuration file (/etc/filebeat/filebeat.yml) to forward Suricata logs to Elasticsearch.

5. **Start Services:**
  ```sh
  sudo service suricata start
  sudo service elasticsearch start
  sudo service kibana start
  sudo service filebeat start
  ```
6. **Access Kibana:** Open a browser and navigate to http://localhost:5601 to access the Kibana dashboard and start visualizing Suricata alerts.

## Usage
* Monitor network traffic for suspicious activity.
* Analyze security events using Kibana dashboards.
* Respond to detected security incidents promptly.
